.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2019, 2022-2025 Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique
.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Institut Mines Télécom Albi-Carmaux
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Institut Pierre-Simon Laplace
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris
.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Observatoire de Paris
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Université de Versaille Saint-Quentin
.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2019, 2022-2025 Université Paul Sabatier
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd October 5, 2023
.Dt HTRDR-MATERIALS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm htrdr-materials
.Nd materials list format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Nm
file lists materials in plain text.
Each line of the file gives the name of the material.
For opaque materials, the material name is followed by the path to a
file storing the spectral properties of the associated Bidirectional
Reflectance Distribution Function
.Pq BRDF ,
saved in
.Xr mrumtl 5
format.
The material temperature is defined as the last parameter in the line,
after the BRDF file mentioned above.
.Pp
The material name can be composed of any character except spaces and
tabs.
The path to the
.Xr mrumtl 5
file must be a valid absolute path in the file system.
.Pp
Text after the
.Li \&#
character is considered a comment and is therefore ignored, as are empty
lines.
.Pp
The file format is as follows:
.Bl -column (htrdr-materials) (::=) ()
.It Ao Va htrdr-materials Ac Ta ::= Ta Ao Va material Ac
.It Ta Ta Va ...
.It Ao Va material Ac Ta ::= Ta Ao Va name Ac Ao Va properties Ac
.It Ao Va properties Ac Ta ::= Ta Li none No \&|
.Aq Va brdf
.Aq Va temperature
.It Ao Va brdf Ac Ta ::= Ta Pa path
# mrumtl file
.It Ao Va temperature Ac Ta ::= Ta Va real
# In Kelvin
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following file lists 3 materials.
The first,
.Va grass ,
has its spectral BRDF defined in file
.Pa A001.mrumtl .
The second, named
.Va sand ,
has its spectral properties recorded in file
.Pa B002.mrumtl .
Both materials have a temperature of
.Va 300
Kelvin.
The final material is a semi-transparent material named
.Va air
with no additional properties defined in this file:
.Bd -literal -offset -Ds
grass   /opt/materials/A001.mrumtl 300
sand    /opt/materials/B002.mrumtl 300
air     none
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mrumtl 5
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
format was first developed for the
.Xr htrdr 1
program.
