.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2019, 2022-2025 Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique
.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Institut Mines Télécom Albi-Carmaux
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Institut Pierre-Simon Laplace
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris
.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Observatoire de Paris
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne
.\" Copyright (C) 2022-2025 Université de Versaille Saint-Quentin
.\" Copyright (C) 2018-2019, 2022-2025 Université Paul Sabatier
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd October 5, 2023
.Dt HTRDR-OBJ 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm htrdr-obj
.Nd geometric file format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Nm
file is an ordinary obj file composed solely of triangular meshes.
Its special feature is that each triangle must be included in a material
group as defined by the
.Li usemtl
directive.
And the form of the
.Li usemtl
directive must be as follows:
.Bd -ragged -offset Ds
.Li usemtl Va front_mtl Ns Oo : Ns Va interface_mtl Oc : Ns Va back_mtl
.Ed
.Pp
with
.Va front-mtl ,
.Va interface-mtl
and
.Va back-mtl
the material names of the front, interface and back of the triangles
belonging to the group.
The interface material name is optional: it is used for thin geometries,
i.e. geometries with no thickness.
Material names can be composed of any character, with the exception of
spaces, tabs and the colon character used to separate the
aforementioned names.
Note that, by convention, a side of a triangle is said to be
"front-facing" when its vertices are ordered clockwise.
.Pp
The grammar of a
.Nm htrdr-obj
file is therefore a subset of the obj file format, with only one
specific convention concerning material names.
Consequently, any software supporting the obj file format can be used to
create or view a
.Nm
file.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Define a sheet of paper at the interface between air and concrete:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
v -1.0  -1.0  0
v -1.0   1.0  0
v  1.0  -1.0  0
v  1.0   1.0  0

usemtl air:paper:concrete
f 1 2 3
f 3 2 4
.Ed
.Pp
Define a wooden cube whose faces along the Z axis are against a brick.
The other faces are in contact with the air:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
v 0 0 0
v 1 0 0
v 0 1 0
v 1 1 0
v 0 0 1
v 1 0 1
v 0 1 1
v 1 1 1

usemtl wood:air
f 1 3 2
f 2 3 4
f 1 5 3
f 3 5 7
f 5 6 7
f 7 6 8
f 4 8 2
f 2 8 6

usemtl wood:brick
f 3 7 4
f 4 7 8
f 1 2 5
f 5 2 6
.Ed
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
format was first developed for the
.Xr htrdr 1
program.
